So far, our application architecture looks something like this.
Our code is making use of the Repository interface provided by Spring
Data Commons in order to interact with the database.
We're using Spring Data JPA so this Repository
interface wraps JPA data access code.
We never see or touch this code directly,
instead only working with the repository.
We're also using an embedded H2 database,
the lifecycle of which is managed by our unit test.
Now because we use Spring Data, if we wanted to migrate to a different database,
such as MongoDB, a document database, then things wouldn't change so much at all.
We will only need to swap string data modules.
The Repository interface we're using should then be the same,
the same CRUDRepository, paging and sorting abstractions,
and even derived query method signatures.
So there should be very little refactoring required.
Of course, our embedded database will change to an embedded MongoDB,
but Spring Boot will help us get started with that quickly too.
But what we're really demonstrating here is proof of how data
store agnostic Spring Data and the repository pattern are and
how useful that makes things.
This really powerful concept as previously discussed is what
helps Spring Data modules all following the same programming model via Spring Data Commons.